so last year I went to the doctor they
checked my height weight took my heart
right you know that type of thing it was
a pretty normal visit eventually we got
to the part where we can ask a doctor
questions I asked her about a rash on my
neck that had really been bothering me
immediately I saw her look worried this
absolutely terrified me because doctors
don't normally look worried of us
there's something serious going on so I
thought maybe I had a terminal illness
or some disease I'd never heard of
eventually after I stop panicking in a
few minutes of research we found out
that this rash it was called scleroderma
diabetic or no and this indicates
insulin resistance so what is it son
resistance first we need to know what
insulin does in our body insulin is a
very powerful hormone that is in charge
of all the other hormones in our body
when you eat something such as
especially at carbohydrate foods such as
donuts bread or pasta the insulin is
released by your pancreas now these
foods when they we eat them are broken
down into their simplest form sugar when
it's in our body we call this sugar
glucose glucose is fuel for ourselves so
think of your cells like LOX insulin is
the key that unlocks these locks to let
glucose into fuel yourselves now when
your insulin resistant your cells
actually build up an immunity to this
insulin and it makes it harder for fuel
to get in this is obviously a problem so
glucose then stays in your bloodstream
and or it stores fat but the glucose in
your bloodstream
eventually costs you to have high blood
sugar which can lead to type 2 diabetes
so this is happening to me what's
happening inside of my body it's pretty
scary right so to fix this problem I was
told I needed to
wait now you're like wait what she's 13
why is she need to lose weight I was of
course a little offended I'd leave
vaccine thoughts but it turns out that
losing weight would help me bring my
blood sugar down to a normal level this
didn't work sure we were eating salads
we cut back on sugar we cut back on the
carbs but nothing was working instead of
gaining or instead of losing weight I
actually gained weight and my blood
sugar was way out of a normal range
I was pretty much ready to give up and
become diabetic my mom however had
different ideas she found us a nutrition
class at the Center for nutritional
weight and wellness in Minnesota and it
did change our lives I learned that to
lose weight you actually have to eat a
new way this involves balancing out your
protein fat and carbohydrates I found
this a little confusing at first because
especially or I found this confusing
especially eating fats
I mean why fats all of our lives we've
been told don't eat those
they're bad they'll destroy your body
some of that's true some of it isn't
certain fats like trans fats yes are bad
others aren't that bad others like
avocados nuts see it whipping cream but
not the stuff from the can even though I
really do like that they actually help
balance our blood sugar so you stay full
longer and it helps you lose weight the
facts we've been warned about our trans
fats stuff like margarine which is
actually partially
the flesh of oil now this is special oil
with hydrogen added to it and long story
short when you eat this it actually
damages your organs more than it helped
you so we had to start eating good fats
instead of this gross stuff that isn't
good for you and that was tough
we weren't really eating what we were
supposed to be so after we made the
switch to fats we had to switch to
carbohydrates and when I say
carbohydrates I don't mean bread pasta
and donuts although I really really like
donuts I mean things like vegetables and
eating vegetables was almost a foreign
concept to me I mean yeah I did you to
sell in like once in a while and I
shuri vegetables with dinner but I
didn't like them I'd rather eat a
sandwich or pasta but it turns out that
these foods drive your blood sugar up
more than it helps you so we had to find
substitutes and these vegetables which
are good carbohydrates help stabilize
your blood sugar so instead of eating
noodles in pasta instead we ate zucchini
which I thought was really weird at
first but it's actually kind of good and
then instead of eating bread and a
sandwich
we ate lettuce as bread which is kind of
hard but I digress
it's dead and okay also I had to start
exercising this again was a foreign
concept I mean sure I played softball
like once or twice a week I jumped on
the trampoline with my sister sometimes
and I did on the rare occasion go for a
walk but what I was doing wasn't working
I use excuses homework chores theater
piano lessons all to get out of doing
exercises eventually my parents had
enough of us
we made an exercise schedule which I
absolutely hate it at first because I
had to block out my free time to do
something I didn't want to do eventually
though it did help and I exercise more
regularly now so my journey isn't all
glitz and glamour like you see in the
media it's a lot of hard work and a lot
of times it's a struggle sometimes it
feels like an endless uphill climb with
the odds stacked against you and
although it smells cliched when life
gets tough the tough get tougher I like
to think of myself as a strong person
maybe I am the one thing that I have
learned throughout this experience
ordeal journey whatever you want to call
it is that you have to treat each day
like you're starting over sure maybe I
didn't eat well maybe I didn't exercise
maybe I didn't do what I was suppose to
do today that's okay tomorrow's a new
day and it gets better
take it from me I've improved my blood
sugar and I'm no longer pre-diabetic now
I'm working towards losing weight so I
don't become pre-diabetic again sure
sometimes I fall off the bandwagon in
fact a lot of times I fall
again but that's okay because each day
presents a new opportunity and with
those new opportunities you can make
yourself and the world around you better
thank you