when I was diagnosed with type 2
diabetes the first thought was I'm gonna
die early it runs in my family in
genetics and I've had aunts and uncles
passed away I've had it on who passed
away I want to say 37 that's young I'm
gonna die before I'm ever ever able to
really accomplish really anything I feel
bad feel sorry for myself sad was just a
tough thing to comprehend and then and
then the moment you you think do you
think like oh I have to make these
changes but the changes are pretty tough
for me to think that I was gonna die
without ever pursuing pursuing any of my
dreams or doing the things that I
thought I was gonna be able to do with
my life that was like that was my first
thought once the doctor said I had type
2 diabetes
[Music]
what I love about exercising is it's
it's really all about me and what I can
do
it's up to me to push myself to get
myself motivated to do the workout and
the feeling that I get after the workout
like I just did a service for myself for
people who have diabetes who've never
worked out before in the beginning it
can be daunting task so like for them
I'll just let them know that just moving
it is gonna benefit you I'll let them
know that there's only one thing in
their life that they have an own and
it's their body and throughout your
whole life from the amendment from the
moment you're born to the moment you die
it's the only thing you have and we have
to figure out ways to take care of it
we can start small and build upon that
and you're still gonna get the benefits
like we don't have to do anything too
crazy or anything that you may not like
right away eventually once you get a
little more fit you will but yeah
usually I just let them know that this
is a process this is a journey
my ultimate goal for the transformation
series is just to reach out and help as
many people as I can to help them
transform their mindset so hopefully
that they can take that and help
somebody else I want to be the spark
that inspires people to do greater
things and help more people living with
diabetes you should take my
transformation workout series mainly
because I've been there like I know what
it feels like to be a diabetic I know
what how hard it is to make that mental
shift from eating foods that I really
enjoy even though I know they're not bad
they're not good for me I know what it
took for me to start at one point and
build my way up to where I am now so I'm
gonna know like the struggles that
you're going through and in the program
I have is built for you to not have to
struggle as much as I did like this is
the
easier plan for people to get behind and
do incomplete and it is fun like you're
gonna hurt you gotta have fun doing this
like it's not a boring thing it's not
gonna be a chore you're gonna work you
don't work hard you're gonna be thing
succeed at this and with that success
she's gonna feel a lot better mentally
and physically
my name is Dex Gerald's and this is the
transformation series
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
you