I am Brooklyn Borough President Eric
Adams and I'm really joined by the true
heroes and she rose I went to the doctor
he stated Eric your diabetes at a
dangerous level got to put you on
insulin right away I had nerve damage in
my hands and feet I lost a lot of money
feeling on my right thigh from nerve
damage and during that same time I was
losing sight in my left eye and the
right eye was going out also and so
little did I know that all of those
symptoms were indicators that the
diabetes had reached a very dangerous
level I don't think anything is more
frightening than waking up and you could
no longer see the alarm clock I started
out my public service career as a member
of the New York City Police Department I
think I had probably the typical police
/ politician diet and you know I love to
always in the room right away that says
cops love doughnuts that is not a rumors
of fact I ate all types of doughnuts
from jelly to cream to glaze it's always
exercise but my diet was horrendous
I'm on the move as an elected official
as a police officer I did study midnight
so it was difficult to find things that
were open late at night so whatever I
can get I would grab and you know just
munch on
you know bad food habits what was
amazing is that not one doctor that I
visited said anything about nutrition
and food
[Music]
[Music]
folks over knives land was just so
helpful when I read in the entire book
and I needed that plan cleaning out my
cupboards what to remove looking at the
list of things that you can eat
understanding the power of fools and
what they do and all of that information
just made me so smart and three weeks my
eyesight cleared up when I changed my
diet and three months all the nerve
damage was gone that also was gone
all of those symptoms that I had
associated with my diabetes disappeared
[Music]
all the 57 and you have a kidney
function of a 30 year old your sugars
look good they're normal you're three
months sugar your a1c has gone from 17
to 5.7 and that's now with no medication
your inflammation is non-existent an
inflammation is a key factor also in
diabetes and the risk for heart attack
in the past my entire mill was built
around my life now my life is built
around my bill I chop up my kale my
carrots my other items that I brought to
you not believing in bags in the fridge
and some of the time to make a meal I
just take a handful of each and put it
all together 90% of the things that I
eat is because I cook I'm in control of
what I eat and no one else is in control
of that
it's so important for me to keep my
energy levels up early today I had a
protest with private housing that people
are being left out then I had a meeting
in public housing but some public
residence was having a problem then I
have my staff meeting with my team and
keep them abreast I have a public event
tonight with those who want to look at a
vegan / plant-based lifestyle I have two
dinners that I have to attend to
actually entertain my Chinese guests
that came from out of the country so if
my energy level is not up I'm not able
to deal with the issues that people are
having and continue to build those
international bridges that I look to do
we can save more lives with plant-based
diet if people will only liberalize they
are enslaved to fats oil sugar and
things that are killing their body and
we're going to make sure that we allow
our children to have healthy food it's
not a bottle it's a reality we're gonna
raise healthy children and families in
the parlor Brooklyn and in the city of
New York when you have a chronic disease
it cripples your entire family and if I
could teach families not how not to go
through that and just experience life
where their family members are not
experience Alzheimer's where
grandparents can't identify their
grandkids and families are going through
chemotherapy and mothers are dealing
with asthma if I can do that if I can
change that
that is the end of the chapter and I
mean I had a great life
[Music]
you