I grew up believing that diabetes was in
my genetics there's nothing I can do
about this I just have to brace for
impact all of my brothers and sisters
with the exception of one sister has
battled with diabetes but I look back
now to the foods we ate when you look at
this whole slew of devastation that has
crippled my family in so many different
ways it really boils down to you know
the food it's the food
[Music]
when I was growing up I was always a
little bigger than most of the other
males my age and I loved football so I
had the fortunate opportunity to play
football and ultimately there earned me
a football scholarship at the University
of Michigan in Ann Arbor I was a big guy
I'm six-two and in college I played at
about 305 pounds and I grew up believing
that I needed protein I need protein and
I need steak and I need chicken and so
and I believe that and of course I was
big and strong I was eating a lot of I
was eating like an ox but the bottom
line was you know after after my college
plane days were over 12 years later I
was diagnosed with diabetes
I saw what his family members went
through because of diabetes and it was
like that there was a big storm coming
our future loved Eric honestly like like
we really have hope I thought that it
was just in his genes and that was our
destiny and then I just had to make the
best of it
so I'm taking insulin shots twice a day
I'm taking multiple medications for all
these conditions and on top of that as
time went on I developed psoriasis all
over my scalp I was overweight I
developed a wrecked-tile dysfunction and
again being a big macho football player
I thought that you know I was invincible
big and strong and everything was gonna
be great well once you develop a
wrecked-tile dysfunction it is deflating
as a man to not be able to go and make
love to I have a beautiful wife I know a
lot of people a lot of guys that I talk
to they'll come to me and they'll say
you know I got that issue too hey you
know and really what's happening is you
know your arteries are clogging your the
artery to your private parts is clogging
and the issue with that is that the
other arteries are clogging as well the
arteries around your coronary heart your
coronary arteries your carotid arteries
those are clogging as well and so it's
only a matter of time before that stroke
and that heart attack happened and so
that's the bigger issue that's the big
train wreck that we need to avoid and
and I say that and I share it openly
because a lot of guys don't want to talk
about this they're embarrassed and I get
it because I was embarrassed too I don't
want to go tell people my business right
who does there's an estimate that forty
to fifty percent of males over the age
of 40 struggle with edie so many guys
think they're gonna pop a pill they can
go have sex and life is great but
they're masking that bigger problem and
that bigger problem is the train wreck
that's around the corner and that's the
heart attack and the stroke and so
something had to change I did not want
to be caught in a position where I
wasn't gonna be able to see my daughter
get married and I want to see my
grandkids and I want to see my great
grandkids and I don't want to be god
forbid in a nursing home or not able to
get up and go and enjoy those times with
my family and my loved ones so I knew at
that point that I needed to make a
change
and that's when my wife and I adopted a
whole food plant-based lifestyle
I was on medications for a decade for 10
years and only getting worse every
single year as time went on while we
adopt this lifestyle and in two months I
was off all five of my medications in
three months I had shed 50 pounds which
took me down to 210 pounds and oh by the
way that was what I weighed in seventh
grade thirteen years old was the last
time I weighed what I weighed today and
I'm 51 so you know I feel like I'm in
the best shape of my life here and I'm
the oldest I've ever been how is that
happening it's the food and what we did
was we actually adopted a whole food
plant-based lifestyle so we eliminated
all the animal products we eliminated
the oils out of our diet and we were
sticking out to really four main food
groups and that's all the fruits all the
vegetables all the grains and all the
legumes in any shape or form we instead
of cooking with oil we will steam them
we'll use veggie broth we'll baked foods
anything we can but you don't need the
oils oils are 100% fat and all these
foods when you look at them they are
just loaded and jam packed with vitamins
with fiber with minerals with
phytonutrients all of the greatness that
will help your bodies thrive these
machines these amazing machines that we
all own and they're devoid and don't
have any of the cholesterol and for the
most part no saturated fat they don't
have any growth hormones no antibiotics
a lot of this that you find in the
animal foods
when I look at the changes that I went
through I was able to reverse my type 2
diabetes reverse my high blood pressure
reverse my high cholesterol my erectile
dysfunction is gone my psoriasis is gone
my obesity is gone and I feel full of
life I'm 51 years old and I feel like I
am literally in the best shape of my
life at this point and what's amazing is
when you look at my lifestyle my
transformation Here I am seven years
into this lifestyle now and I know they
say never say never but I am never going
back to eating the way I used to eat
which was a lot of the animal foods and
a lot of oils I'm eliminating those
foods I have for seven years now and I
never see myself going back because I
feel too damn good now so if you want to
be a real man if you want to take care
of your family
take care of yourself because your
family doesn't need you to go have a
stroke or a heart attack and then have
to take care of you so be a real man
take care of self and take care of your
family and it's not coming through a
pill it's going to come through the food
you eat
[Music]
you
you