with more than 4 million people living
with type 2 diabetes in the UK and one
in three of us with raised blood sugar
levels that can lead to the disease what
can you do to avoid it or even reverse
it well rather than start on medication
dr. Michael Mosley invented b-52 diets
when he was diagnosed which not only led
to weight loss but a complete reversal
of his diagnosis so could you do the
same on a similar diet dr. Mosley is
once again here now let's talk about
your case first of all so you went to
the doctors with their troublesome
whirring moly that's right and then they
did she did a random blood test and she
rang up late to say the mall is fine but
I'm really sorry your blood Sugar's
arrays need further tests and she told
me I was type 2 diabetic were you
overweight no not on the outside if
you'd look to me you said that was quite
slim but actually I coded laga before
it's called visceral fat internal fat
and what's called a or used to be what's
called a toffee then on the outside fat
inside so I was slightly overweight but
the reality is that we all have our own
personal fat threshold where we kind of
tip over in two days before we go any
further and I think anyone who is
diabetic type 1 or type 2 would
appreciate the very very clear
definition type 1 diabetes and type 2
diabetes we're talking about type 2
diabetes which is lifestyle on the whole
lifestyle leg type 1 diabetes genetic
autoimmune nothing you can do about that
once you've got it it's daily insulin
injections but that's got nothing to do
with life absolutely they're completely
different conditions type 1 typically
occurs in childhood or when you're young
and type 2 is something which tends to
develop as you get older particularly
after the age of 50 when rate starts
shoot up I advise on this changes very
frequently at the moment actually one
thing you think you're doing right and
then the next thing you doing right then
you suddenly find out it's all
completely wrong and you yourself gave
your father some poor advice yes but he
was a type 2 diabetic and I was urging
him on the low-fat diet which was
absolutely what we were taught at
medical school to do and unfortunately
it didn't do him much good and he
actually died quite young from
complications of it and so that's really
why when my GP told me your attack to
diabetic I decided I didn't want to go
down that road so what is the answer
then well it is weight loss and per tick
if you can lose the weight around your
tummy I did it by five - I lost around
10 kilos around 22 pounds in 12 weeks
and that was okay but since then I've
come across work done by Professor Roy
Taylor and Newcastle University and what
he's shown is that if you lose around 10
to 12 percent of your body weight which
is kind of what I did
then in 87 percent of people who are
newly diagnosed they can reverse their
type 2 diabetes I don't call it cure
because I suspect if I put on the weight
but the longer you've been diabetic for
the less likely or because the more
damage you've done to your pancreas and
things like that but that's really
encouraging because I mean that's
massively in coach
yes yeah so your your diamine this is no
surprise we've been told this yes for a
long time you know so you lead an
unhealthy lifestyle and and type-2
diabetes is a ticking time bombs gonna
cost the NHS a fortune as more and more
people put on weight and and are either
pre type-2 diabetic or actually type 2
diabetic so it's no great surprise the
trouble is for me is that there are
massively conflicting views constantly
in the newspapers there are I mean they
diet that I've written about in the
blood sugar diet is essentially 800
calories for eight weeks now that is a
rapid weight loss diet and on the whole
most dieticians would go very bad idea
but actually we have known for 10 years
at least that rapid weight loss is
probably the way to go if you actually
want to lose weight what happens after
that completely no absolutely it is what
happens next that is really critical the
great thing about rapid weight loss is
it's incredibly encouraging you stand on
the scales
you've gone down to another few pounds
but afterwards is a critical bit and
that's what they've also written about
extensively in the book based on
conversations with the world experts
because it's about changing what you eat
so you have to kind of shift to a more
Mediterranean style diet and you also
have to increase your activity but you
also have to manage your stress levels
and for that what I use is a technical
mindfulness you can kind of buy a nap I
did a horizon film about it recently but
essentially it's about just timing a
period in the day 10 minutes where you
just kind of relax and you listen to
your breath and you don't worry about
things
and that brings down the stress mess
people over eat because their stress
it's like almost like a medicine and
that's a common court and I think they
reach for sugary Cubs where do you feel
stressed wait I feel stressed like what
it's chocolate I some hi Coco yeah you
got what I'm reaching for unfortunately
we're really good