I eat lots of steak I ate lots of I ate
everything but a vegetable wrestling I
started to gain some bad weight only
partly was a took steroids and ate
abruptly came off steroids because of an
injury kept eating when wrestling was
over kept eating health from age 30 on
probably not very good didn't move well
you know loss of breath up and down
stairs you know just I was 6 4 but I was
340 pounds so I mean I I didn't look
enormous ly obese but I was obese the
diagnosis was poignant primarily because
my dad passed away when he was 53 years
old and I was 14 at this time that I got
diagnosed I was 53 years old my oldest
son was 14 I had flashbacks of me
without a dad and that just wasn't
something I was willing to let happen to
the next generation I was given met
Foreman as you know because that's what
they give everybody at the VA you I
think you come in with a bottle of
metformin and attach to your belt they
gave me the metformin they told me to
take it I took it for three days I
brought it back stuck it on a desk and
said give me the insulin they said why I
said because this stuff makes me sick I
said I'd rather take the shots she said
once you take insulin you're never
coming off of it I said I'll see you in
90 days 90 days later I came back I was
about 60 pounds lighter all my numbers
were within reason the a1c was down to
about six five I put the I put the
insulin on her desk and said I'm done
not taking it any more I'll do the rest
of it with diet and exercise with the VA
you go you go through doctors like kids
go through M&Ms
and I went to the doctor I I was
approximately 15 16 months
post-diagnosis he says son you no longer
have diabetes and he wrote non-diabetic
in my record I was emotionally wrecked I
was John of two Tia's literally two
tears because I knew how hard it was to
get where I got I knew how hot I worked
and and I knew what was at stake so it
gave me a a lease on life that I
probably didn't deserve my numbers today
are all within all under normal ranges
under five three a1c all my blood sugar
and numbers are to the point now where I
don't even bother anymore
I don't I haven't I don't check hey I'm
Bob Blackburn I reverse type 2 diabetes
with the help of two things a whole food
plant-based no oil diet and dr. Neil
Bonnett without those two things I
wouldn't be sitting here today
you