my name is Sam Williamson I'm 22 years
old I've just graduated from University
last June I have been diabetic since the
age of eleven and I am insulin dependent
and currently taking sections five times
a day I was diagnosed when my mum read
something about the symptoms and signs
of diabetes in a magazine and then I
started drinking more needing to go to
the toilet more at school I am psyched
falling asleep really early was more
grumpy than usual things like that so
she then took me down to the doctor's
surgery and they did one quick blood
test and and that was it my daily
routine is a bit different someone
without diabetes I have to wake up do a
blood test have some insulin for my food
I can't really miss breakfast and so you
have to make sure even if I wake up late
I have to make sure I can fit in
breakfast then repeat the process of
injecting and blood testing at lunch and
dinner and then I also have to inject
before I go to bed depending on how busy
my day is or what I'm doing sometimes I
don't do that all the blood tests I'm
supposed to very occasionally I don't do
what the insulin I'm supposed to and I
probably could look after myself a bit
better but I'm coming to the age now
where I'm trying to do that at school
and since really every time you have to
inject or do a blood test you get lots
of questions you get lots of reactions
like oh no that's horrible
look how big that needle is and it's
really not it's just like a five
millimeter needle and for me it's part
of everyday life but they all make a big
fuss about it which does get on my
nerves a little bit
it almost seems like there's a constant
need to justify what you're doing which
makes it harder to let it become part of
daily life at school it wasn't just my
fellow pupils that I had issue is I also
had issues with teachers as well who you
would think were a bit more educated in
the area but they aren't always I once
had a maths teacher who was I had a hypo
in class and it got surreptitiously got
some of my Luke's aid tablets out to
deal with that he thought I was eating
sweets and he said
to the headmaster when I protested that
I wasn't so he did get Stern turning off
afterwards I think to my parents it's
had a huge impact on them they are very
supportive very caring I think it has
given my mom a huge thing to worry about
and my dad as well however my mum chose
it more every time since the age of 11
till the age till now you know most
times I leave the house I get asked
whether I've got the right in slim and
I've got snaps and lucozade I don't know
it's just them looking after me and
caring but sometimes it does it does
become a bit repetitive but whilst I was
at university I managed to lock myself
out of my house without any insulin and
because of that my blood Sugar's they
skyrocketed I had to spend three days in
hospital it was very apparent that the
receptionist thought that I had just
been drinking far too much last night
and was very drunk even when we told her
that I was a type 1 diabetic she still
clearly thought that I was just really
really drunk and had brought it upon
myself and was very sharp and short not
very caring and I think it was only when
I managed to fill up a sick bowl
incredibly quickly that she began to
think there was actually something wrong
with me so on the occasion that some
ended up going to hospital he had to be
told to go he didn't want to go he
thought he had food poisoning or some
sort of flu or bug and it was anyone I
insisted that he went and I actually had
to take him into a knee and even then
when he was there I didn't feel he
needed to be there until I was who the
doctors explained the severity of the
situation and actually congratulated me
on taking him there so yeah he did need
to be pressurised and I think it was a
reality check for him that those things
can happen in his life maybe he needs to
take a bit more control so I'm now
trying to tailor my insulin intake more
to what I eat so I've now got an app on
my iPhone that says exactly how much
carbs are in each meal but obviously you
then have to every meal gets it in front
of you you have to taught it up and work
out the right amounts of units of
insulin so it almost makes
every meal into a bit of a math problem
they've come to Green Park in London to
run the London 10k I'm raising money for
diabetes to UK so when I woke up this
morning had a nice slow release car
breakfast to last me throughout the
activity and also took a bit less
insulin for it so I'm running a bit high
so that I don't dip down whilst I'm on
it also hopefully I should make it to
the end without having a hypo
okay so I've just finished the 10k took
me just over an hour about 105 I think
because of the amount of sugar use
running 10k and because it's very hot
today it's lost in sweat and things like
that just having a sugary drink to
repoint some of that my stomach doesn't
really feel like I can take any food at
the moment despite the fact that I've
got diabetes it doesn't stop me doing
these things just means that there needs
to be a few more plans in place but
you're still doing
[Music]